So why are we getting this key warning?
After all it looks like everything works.
Well React has a special concept when it comes
to rendering lists of data
a concept which exists to ensure that React is
able to update and render such lists efficiently
without performance losses, or bugs, which may occur.
And I wanna show you which problem we have
with the current implementation.
If you have a look at your Developer Tools
and you go to the Elements tab, there,
you can inspect your
your list here, which is this list of div's.
We could change this to a list with list items
but for the moment, I'll stick to these div's here.
And if we now have a look at this list here
then you should watch the part here
on the right in Developer Tools
as I add a new item,
A book 2, for example,
for 39.99
if I add dat,
watch these div's on the right.
Did you see what happened?
This last item flashed.
And if our item flashes here, it means
that it was edited
or added by the browser.
Now it's strange that the last item flashed
because actually the new item was added
as the first item, the top most item in this list
to understand what's going on.
Let me expand this first item,
A book 2, which I just added.
And let me add a third item here,
like this.
Let's add this and click Add Expense
and you see
this also flashed
if not rewind and go back a couple of seconds.
And you'll see that this h2 tag of the
first item,
also flashed when I added this new item.
So what actually happens here when I add a new item
is that React, renders this new item
as the last item in this list of div's
and updates all items and replace their content,
such that it again
matches the order of the items in my Array.
And this is not great.
This is happening
because to React all these items look similar
and it only sees that my Array changed
that it's now longer than before.
And hence it simply renders an additional div
and it adds that at the end.
And then it simply walks through all the items
and updates the content inside of every item
to match the Array content again.
The final result, therefore is correct here
but from a performance perspective this is not great
because all items are visited and updated
and it can even lead to bugs.
If the expense items would be state full items
and we would have some state managed inside of that.
Then if, for example, our first item,
if it has a certain state if we add a new item
the old first item would be overwritten
with the new first item.
Hence any state changes we might've had in there
would be lost.
So besides potential performance issues
we could also run into bugs.
So that is a problem.
And the question therefore is,
why does React, behave like this?
The answer is because it has no other way.
It currently simply checks the length
of the Array and then has a look
at the number of items that were already rendered.
The individual items all look similar to React though
so it can't know where a new item should be added
or anything like that.
That's why we get this warning because we have a way
of telling react where a new item it should be added.
And we do that by going to the place
where we output our list of items.
So does map method here
and we then add a special prop to this item here.
And that's the key prop.
This is not a prop we are using instead of expense item
but instead it's a prop you can add to any component
no matter if it's a custom component by you
or if it's a built in HTML element, you can always add this.
And if you do add it, if you add the key
to your component or HTML element,
then you can
help React identify the individual items.
For dat you need to set a unique
value per list item
and dat, for example in this case here
would be the expense ID
because in our expenses Array,
every item has a unique ID.
And if you wonder what you do, if you have no unique ID
then you could use the second argument which you get here
for the function you pass to map
which is an automatically managed index
though it's discouraged to use that since with that
you can still run into bugs because the index
for a given item is always the same
and not directly attached to the content of the item.
For the ID that's different
every item with a certain content has a clear unique ID.
And in reality, it turns out that
in most scenarios you do have some unique ID
because typically you are rendering some data which comes
from a database or anything like that.
And there you work with unique IDs anyways.
So finding some unique identifier is no problem
and you can use any primitive value as a unique identifier
any number or String that can be unique identifiers.
So here I add this key,
pointing at expense ID.
And once we do that, if we reload
we no longer get that warning.
And if I now
inspect my, my list here again
and I inspect the, the title of the currently first item
if I now add a new item again,
like this
book
you will see that this h2 tag did now not flash instead
this div flashed and this div was also now added
at the beginning of the list correctly.
This div here, I mean, as it should be, because
now React is able to uniquely identify all these items
and it's therefore aware, not just how long the Array is
but also aware which items should be placed.
And it's able to update this list more efficient way.
So long story short.
You should always add such a key
when mapping out lists of items.
And I hope I could explain why that matters.
You don't need to know why it's enough if you add it.
But I think it's always important
that you also do understand what's going on
behind the scenes and why you're doing something.